Khojisteh the main character of the Tutinama and the merchant's daughter yet again goes to the
Parrot to listen to another mesmerizing story. The Parrot agrees and tells Khojisteh an
extraordinary story to keep her from being unfaithful to her husband.
In the story the merchant's daughter hears a beautiful voice and is drawn to it like in trance and
goes down to meet the owner of that hypnotizing voice.
She says, please take me with you I have a "stupid ugly husband".
According to Goswamy and Dllapiccola the Tutinama displays different styles suggesting
multiple artist with different backgrounds. First, the Persian culture is depicted by the stranger
playing the guitar. On the other hand, the merchant's daughter is shown in a common Indian
clothing style.
In that scene the stranger immediately agrees to take her with him and so they ran
away into the sunset.
Being exhaust from running away, they found a quiet spot and "slept under a tree , by the side of a pond".
Here, the tree displays the influence by European styles through the usage of loose brushwork.
When the merchant's daughter awoke, she noticed that her jewellery and the man were gone.
She screamed after him :"Wait where are you going?"
Shortly she realized: God damn it, he played me!
Standing there in despair she heard something rustle.
She turned and saw a jackal with a bone in his mouth, trying to catch a fish. Unfortunately he
was not successful. At the same time, he also lost his bone.
In this image we can notice a change of her dress. Her top shows clearly a change in color.
This can be a symbol for a change in thought pattern.
The merchants daughter started laughing at the jackal for being so clumsy.
Catching the jackals attention, he asked her
"What woman are thou, and why are thou standing here alone?"
The Indian culture is here shown through the jackal.
Because the artists predominantly focused on precise illustrations of the animals in the stories.
The merchant's daughter told the jackal what had happened to her.
The jackal then advised her to go back home and to pretend she was out of her mind.
This way "whoever sees you will forgive you" my dear.
Being mortified of her actions, the woman acted according to the jackals advise
and went home to explain her lost jewellery.
Of course she authentically explained herself to her husband
and to all the others who are sneaking upon them.
Except the women sitting beside her husband, who might actually be his mother.
But is she convincing enough? As it sure looks like all those present in the room are questioning her.
But her husband sitting in a common Mughal position, as it looks like on a
bed surrounded by women, is surely convinced otherwise.
Of course, no one can argue against a mad person ;therefore,
"nobody could find fault with her" and she was forgiven.